Are you ready to move on to go?
Yeah, awesome.
Let's move on to the go.
So we're gonna do the exact same thing
is that I'm gonna go to my go package.
I'm gonna go in the command folder and
I'm gonna create a p2.
In here I'll do my main.go
package.main just like we are all
kind of used to right?
All right so
let's do the exact same thing I'm going
to hop back to my previous project.
I am going to find my nice input here.
I'm gonna yap that is what that's called.
So in vim if you go Y-A-P it actually
yanks a paragraph of code or contiguous
code and if I do a space it yanks it to
of course my clipboard beautiful luck.
Use tmux paste it in we're looking good.
All right so func getInput exact same
thing right we don't pretty much have to
change anything with go we
don't say function we say funk.
You don't use colons to denote when
the types coming in you just simply say
the type, simple right awesome.
All right, so
let's do the exact same thing.
I'm gonna go type point struct, right.
And then from here we'll do x int,
y int awesome.
Now let's do type Line struct which is
gonna have p1 point up I just added a,
don't do that doesn't like him there
we go we just did it right there right
we just put it all in we're creating
the exact same thing again but with go.
So now let's go funk parsePoint and
we're going to take in a line
that's gonna be a string.
And we're gonna return out a point.
But of course remember we have error, so
in this one do we want
to handle the errors?
Or do we want to just
simply error program?
I'll let you guys decide.
>> Handle.
>> Handle, you guys wanna handle?
Okay, so let's handle our errors.
Now remember, as I told you earlier, when
we handle our errors, lets always return
a pointer to the struct and then return
an error as our second argument.
A beautiful thing about go multiple return
values I remember I was doing an interview
at Facebook a few years back, and I made
such a fool of myself because all I was
doing was go during that period as just
learning the language for the first time.
And the interview was in JavaScript,
and the person was just like, well,
how do you return multiple values
from a function JavaScript?
I was like, you can't, cuz I'm in the go
world where there's literal multiple
values and the person like, yes, you can,
no, you can't, you can return one value,
that's it.
I'm sitting here arguing over semantics,
they were right past each other.
So one problem about doing a lot of
languages is you end up forgetting or
you argue over in you're both
saying the same thing it's funny.
Anyways so let's parse the point.
So we're gonna go like this line or we're
gonna go I always do this parts that's
I don't know why it's always
been kind of a word I've used.
Again strings has friendly operations for
strings and let's do Split passing
the string we want to split on because
remember they don't have those methods
on the strings they have this nice little
library and let's do a what is it?
Yeah, let's do a little comma right here.
Fantastic.
So now we have x and y, so we're gonna go
like this x, err equals string convert
remember, exact same thing this converts
the string Atoi let's pass in parts 0.
Now we need to handle the err so
what I'm going to do is I have my nice
little convenient function
if error does not equal nil,
meaning there's an error here,
then return nothing and the err.
So my since I did this nice little pointer
right here that means I can return nothing
I don't have to create
anything it's fantastic.
Then I'm just going to copy this
entire thing paste it in hit it
with a y increment that number,
again there we go fantastic.
By the way for those that are wondering
how did you just increment that number in
this beautiful program called vim if you
hit CTRL A it actually increments the next
occurring number on your line it's
pretty fantastic I use it all the time.
There we go so now I have x and y they're
both gonna be numbers we've handled
the air conditioning and so
now we can return point.
Remember do not specify them as a list
initializer, use the more explicit form or
else you're gonna be a sad panda
when you screw it all up and so
now we need to return nil for
error, there is no error.
And of course we have to turn our
point into a pointer because that's
the reason why we can return nil up
here is because pointers can be nil
right that makes sense.
And of course you can always
execute a go format and
it puts this thing right here as they
once said that no one is happy with go
formatting which is why everyone's
happy it's the way no one would do it.
And so I don't like that but you should
always use go for matter to do your code.
There you go anyways have this beautiful
piece of code we've parsed the point.
Now let's parse the line.
So I'm gonna like this funk parse line,
I bet you a bit a lot of you can start
writing this without even me doing it
because it's that simple at this point.
We'll do that of course, what are we
returning a pointer to a line and
then an error.
Now, we need to do the exact
same stuff as we did up here, so
we can literally just grab that line bring
it down, paste it in and then do what?
Well, instead of that,
we do a dash, there we go.
We've now parsed out each point so
we now have a right hand in
the left hand and
we're gonna do the exact same thing again,
p1, err parsePoint, parts,
0, what do we do again?
Everyone's favorite thing err does not
equal nil, return nil and the err.
Awesome, I'm gonna highlight it.
I'm gonna paste it.
I'm gonna increment it, and boom,
we have ourselves part twoawesome.
Now I'll return line as a pointer and
p1 as p1 and p2 as p2.
So we have this final problem right
here right which is what just happened
right here well, we specified
the points as pointers, right?
When we returned it, but
our line did not take pointer so
we have a couple ways we could solve this.
But I'd say the easiest way
is just to simply say, hey,
a line consists of two points and
their pointers.
For you it doesn't make any difference,
right, this is not like C++ where you have
to use that caret function
to access members, right?
During just regular programming you don't
really notice the difference between
a pointer and a non pointer.
The reason why pointers
are very important,
I'll go over here after we finish this
problem section, why it's so important.
But for now, this just makes it easy,
right, there we go,
we've solved our problem.
When I hop back down here, you will
see everything is fantastic, awesome.
So now all we need to do is create the
main function do what we did before and
we should be good to go.
So func main, I'm gonna bring this up,
cuz it's annoying to be
at the bottom of the screen and
we will do of course our getInput and
then we'll do strings split
just like we did before.
What we've been doing is that we just
got done converting line from just two
points to references,
two points, pointers to points.
And so now when we return points as
pointers from parsePoint because there's
an error,
it just keeps on flowing through nicely.
If you don't use pointers with errors, you
run to all those weird things where you're
creating these empty structs and
everything.
This makes 100 times more sense, just
a lot more pointers in your lifetime but
what does that practically mean for you?
Virtually nothing, it just means it just
programming doesn't change because go does
not have different ways to access members
if it is a pointer versus a non pointer.
So anyways, so
let's continue on right here.
We're gonna take our input,
we're going to split it on the new line,
now we can have this we can call this
thing parts if we really want to or lines.
But what we can also do, which I think is
probably the nicer way, exactly like this,
for, we don't care about the index for
line in range of this thing.
There we go so same thing we did last
time, but now we just kind of inlined it.
A little bit nicer probably feels a little
bit easier and so now I'm gonna create one
last thing I'm going to call something
lines the reason why I did this for
this exact reason is I'm going to
create an array of line pointers.
Here we go and so in go of course,
raise put the brackets in the beginning,
not at the end, why?
I don't know cries and
difference is just a part of it all.
So there we go and this of course is just
like, hey, I'm an initializer of lines,
but there's nothing there.
So we just created a empty or
empty array, if you will.
So now, I have a line and
now I want to parse out that line.
So I'm running out of the word because
I have lines I have line I'll call
that an L and then call this thing a line,
line err parseline, right?
And passing the L and there we go we now
have the pointer line out and the err.
So if I see that that's a pointer line,
if I look at that, that's an err.
Awesome, I can handle the err but
of course, we're now in the main function.
So we can't use this we
can't just return nil error.
Here I can use something
like log fatal for
now just say, hey,
we couldn't parse the line.
And then even if we wanted to,
we could even include the line as well,
that make it nice and easy, but we'll
just do that because it's not gonna fail.
We cut and paste this code,
it should be all fantastic.
One last thing that's a little bit weird
about go is that if you use the LSP
it actually comes with this
as you can see right there.
Use a pen to bank, if you accept that what
it's going to do is it convert your line
into this lines equals append lines.
And it's kind of one of those weird things
about go, is when you append to a list,
it actually hands you back a new list.
And effectively things can be resized,
things can be moved,
things can be different.
So it's just as this and
this is an easy way for
you to always just have the correct thing.
So if you just append you don't
actually you're not gonna get what you
think you're gonna get and so
I would just stay like this.
There's some reasoning why,
how it's represented memory, all that but
it's really irrelevant at this moment.
And so there we go, we have that.
And now of course,
we use the standard format print again,
someone's angry about the fact that I
have both log and print in the same file.
We're just gonna be okay with this and
we're gonna go printf plus v and
pass in lines.
And now do the whole go run p2 main and
what we should see are these
beautiful beautiful numbers we
have a pointer which is very unfortunate
so you don't get the nice inlining.
If we didn't have that then
we'd have something nice so
let's just jump up here go to
the pointer remove that dereference that
pointer rerun it and
look at how beautiful that is.
But again the points are pointers so
you don't get a very beautiful printing so
that's one downfall of course to using
pointers is that the standard format print
is not as nice.
There is actually a string function that
you can implement that will do all this
for you so long as you implement the
string method and just use a percent V.
I believe it should print it out how you
specify which makes it a little bit nicer.
So there you go we saw that and
go, fantastic.